Now there also are two other features related
to this matrix configuration, which I also wanna mention.
And the first feature
is that you can add the special include key
here under matrix.
In general, these keys are up to you
and you can add any keys you want
and use them in your job and step configuration thereafter.
But the include key is a reserved key.
This allows you to add a list with dashes
of key values that should be included
without adding a bunch of new combinations.
For example here,
we could add one combination where node-version is 18
and operating system is ubuntu-latest.
Of course, I could have just added 18 here
to this list up there,
but that would've added two new combinations
where version 18 would've been used on ubuntu-latest
and windows-latest.
Now, if I know that I want to have all these combinations
but then this additional single combination
where I use node-version 18 on ubuntu-latest
I can add this single combination with the include key.
So include allows you to add standalone combinations
and you can even add brand new keys here
which weren't specified up here.
So this can be used to add single combinations.
Similarly, you can also add the exclude key
to exclude some combinations.
If I, for example,
know that I don't wanna use node-version 12
on windows-latest,
but I wanna construct all these other combinations,
I could either add ubuntu-latest with node 12
as a standalone combination with help of include
or I set it up as I did up here
and I add an excluded combination
where I exclude node version 12
on operating system windows-latest.
So now this combination would be excluded
from the generated matrix.
So with this is made, we can create a new commit,
add it include and exclude
and push this and you will now see that for matrix demo.
This of course again runs,
and you see that now the version 12 Windows
combination is missing.
There's only one version 12 combination on Ubuntu.
But on the other hand, we do have version 18 on Ubuntu.
So that's the included combination.
And the missing version 12
on Windows combination is the one we removed with exclude.
So that's how you can also use include and exclude
to add or remove combinations.